examples/nextjs/README.md, before:

# example: Next.js

> A typical project using [next.js](https://nextjs.org/)

![Page spec](images/page-spec.png)

## Configuration

In order to reuse next's webpack configuration and all the custom configuration defined in `next.config.js` connect special plugin in [plugin file](./cypress/plugins/index.js)

```js
const preprocessor = require('cypress-react-unit-test/plugins/next')

module.exports = (on, config) => {
  preprocessor(on, config)

  return config
}
```

## Usage

1. Run `npm install` in this folder to install dependencies.

```bash
# in this folder
npm install
```

3. Start Cypress

```bash
npm run cy:open
# or just run headless tests
npm test
```

## Server side props

⚠️⚠️ **Important:** ⚠️⚠️ Please do not test the page components using component testing. These components have too much responsibility and need to be tested as a part of your application flow. Consider using cypress `integration` tests.

But if you still want to test the page component, make sure that it will be mounted as any other pure `React` component. It means that next's specific functions like `getInitialProps` or `getStaticProps` **won't be called**.

But still you can call them manually:

```js
IndexPage.getInitialProps().then(props => {
  mount(<IndexPage {...props} />)
})

cy.contains(
  '`.getInitialProps()` was called and passed props to this component',
)
```

Find more examples in [Page.spec.jsx](./cypress/components/Page.spec.jsx).

## Coverage

Code coverage is not working yet, see issue [431](https://github.com/bahmutov/cypress-react-unit-test/issues/431). It was disabled in [cypress.json](cypress.json)

Commit message:

fix: add code coverage to Next.js

examples/nextjs/README.md, after:

# example: Next.js

> A typical project using [next.js](https://nextjs.org/)

![Page spec](images/page-spec.png)

## Configuration

In order to reuse next's webpack configuration and all the custom configuration defined in `next.config.js` connect special plugin in [plugin file](./cypress/plugins/index.js)

```js
const preprocessor = require('cypress-react-unit-test/plugins/next')

module.exports = (on, config) => {
  preprocessor(on, config)

  return config
}
```

## Usage

1. Run `npm install` in this folder to install dependencies.

```bash
# in this folder
npm install
```

3. Start Cypress

```bash
npm run cy:open
# or just run headless tests
npm test
```

## Server side props

⚠️⚠️ **Important:** ⚠️⚠️ Please do not test the page components using component testing. These components have too much responsibility and need to be tested as a part of your application flow. Consider using cypress `integration` tests.

But if you still want to test the page component, make sure that it will be mounted as any other pure `React` component. It means that next's specific functions like `getInitialProps` or `getStaticProps` **won't be called**.

But still you can call them manually:

```js
IndexPage.getInitialProps().then(props => {
  mount(<IndexPage {...props} />)
})

cy.contains(
  '`.getInitialProps()` was called and passed props to this component',
)
```

Find more examples in [Page.spec.jsx](./cypress/components/Page.spec.jsx).

## Mocking imports

Mocking imports is not working yet, seems the plugin we are inserting for loose mode causes problems, see issue [439](https://github.com/bahmutov/cypress-react-unit-test/issues/439).
